Recognise any of these? No? Well, these are common encoding methods which you would need to recognise when solving forensics challenges. While they might not be the only step in solving a forensics challenge, they are required for identifying certain "telltale" signs of when something is fishy.

## Hex (base 16)
1. Hex is basically just a 16 base numbering system (0-9, A-F)
	- So basically A → 10, B → 11, C → 12, D → 13 E →14 F → 15.
	- It ends at 15 because computing stuff is 0-indexed (computers count from 0 instead of counting from 1 like how we normally do)
2. This normally comes in useful when finding [[1.3 File formats |magic bytes]] and when doing **hex editing**
### Hex editing
1. How do I then manipulate hex?
	- To do that, you would do it in a hex editor
	- I recommend **[hexedit](https://hexed.it)** as it's very beginner friendly, but any other hex editing software works too. The (`xxd`) command in Linux works but i do not recommend it as you are not able to directly edit hex on it, as it only displays hex.
	- To edit the hex bytes, just click on the bytes and type in your hex values.
2. What would I normally be doing with Hex editors?
	- Modifying hex of an image (image fixing) 
	- Adding or removing bytes (done when missing hex or missing other stuff to complete the [[1.3 File formats |magic bytes]])
	- Exporting certain bytes as people might hide stuff inside the hex of a file

## Binary (base 2)
1. Evidently called binary as it only uses 2 numbers in its numbering system (0 and 1)
2. Normally you don't edit binary, you rather decode them
	- I recommend **[cyberchef](https://cyberchef.org/)** as they are a one stop shop to decode anything remotely relevant to forens 
	- Also found surprisingly often in stego 🤢🤮

## Decimal (base 10)
1. It is just 1-10. The basic numbering system we use everyday
	* not a huge point but IP is also based on the decimal system
## Base 64
1. A encoding system which uses 64 characters to encode stuff
2. Can be normally spotted by its signature padding "``== or =``"
	- It does this because base64 works by taking 3 bytes to convert to 4 base64 blocks. When there string does not have a byte multiple of 3, the base64 encoding scheme will add `=` as padding to ensure it is a multiple of 3 
3. How can i decode / encode base64?
	- Once again, **[cyberchef](https://cyberchef.org/)**
4. How is base64 useful? 
	- Useful in challenges as they like to hide the flag in base64, preventing it from being `strings file.png | grep "FLAG FORMAT"`. However, this can be subverted by  encoding the flag format in base64. We can however subvert the subversion by running the command ``strings file.png | grep "base64 of flag format``. This also works for other encodings so long as u know / can guess the encoding scheme 
	- Also used in the sending of binary data over text based protocols as they sometimes might render into unreadable symbols.
