Have u ever seen a `.zip` file? they come in all sort of flavours, from the annoying `.tar.gz`, to the classic `.zip`, `.rar` or even `.7z`. But, sometimes a challenge would give you a locked zip file which is impossible to crack open manually. This is where zip file brute-forcing comes into play.

## Zip basics: 
A compressed (Zip) folder is basically a folder which has been compressed into a file, often denotes by the `.zip` file extension. It sometimes is able to be set with password encryption. Zip compression btw, is done through the use of 2 algorithms (you can choose which one you want to use). The first one is the STORE algorithm, which basically just leaves the file as is, and does not change it in any meaningful way.

However, if the DEFLATE algo is used, both the LZ77 and Huffman techniques. 
> (It is LOSSLESS, JPEGs are LOSSY due to DCT and not because of Huffman which only encodes the file )
##### Magic bytes
It's magic bytes are
- **`50 4B`**: Represents "PK" in ASCII.
    
- **`03 04`**: Indicates the version of the ZIP format (version 4.5 in this case).

## So, what about bruteforcing?
In challenges, we are often given a zip file which we do not know the password to. We hence need 2 things - a dictionary (wordlist) and a tool to help "crack" / bruteforce the password. 
##### Tools 
I often use `fcrackzip`, a package which can be installed with your favourite package manager, but you can use the **[john suite](https://www.kali.org/tools/john/)** to achieve this. John also allows you to bruteforce password-protected pdfs too, but that will be covered in [[1.6 Pdfs and their intricacies]]. 

A wordlist is then a list, often a .txt file, containing all the potential passwords you have to try against the file. Most of the time, you will be using **[rockyou.txt](https://github.com/brannondorsey/naive-hashcat/releases/download/data/rockyou.txt)** which contains a really really large amount of passwords. But sometimes, you would have to make your own wordlist. 
##### Example usage: 

`fcrackzip -D -p /path/to/wordlist.txt -u protected.zip`
- `-D`: Use dictionary mode.
    
- `-p /path/to/wordlist.txt`: Specify the path to a wordlist file (e.g., `rockyou.txt`).
    
- `-u`: Unzip the file after finding the password.
    
- `protected.zip`: The password-protected ZIP file.
#### Follow up challenges:
1. shadowing-you #CCT19
2. BigZip #blahajCTF2024 → really cooool challenge about the STORE and DEFLATE algorithms
